---
layout: post
title: "Me & My Mooc"
date: 2014-11-11 19:38
cover: cover.jpg
comments: true
categories: [mooc, mba]
---
So I've been wondering recently about whether an MBA is worthwhile for me.  Given, family commitments, and my lack of incredible wealth, a full-time MBA is not an option.  That leaves part-time and EMBA.  Both are expensive, and will take a couple of years of evenings and weekends.

All which may be fair enough, if I can make back the £XX,000 reasonably quickly.

But recently I've seen a couple of articles about doing an MBA for free.  This would involve approximating the curriculum using free online courses from universities and business schools of high standing.

Taken at face value, by doing a DIYMBA you'd lose out on networking, and face-to-face discussion, and of course an impressive piece of paper, not to mention another 3 letters after your name.

On the other hand, you'd be £XX,000 up once you completed the course, you'd have more flexibility and customisability, and (if we're being honest) you'd be able to do something else without too much consequence if it turns out to be not your thing.

A good example of someone going through this would be Laurie Pickard at [No-Pay MBA](http://www.nopaymba.com/).  Laurie's a bit of a pioneer, and her site has a wealth of information to help build your own curriculum.

Now all this sounds great, and this afternoon I was happily researching possible courses.  Then I came across this article: [How to talk yourself out of getting an MBA](http://qz.com/211667/how-to-talk-yourself-out-of-getting-an-mba/).  Here, Brooke Allen asks you to try to convince yourself that an MBA is really what you want to do, with a definite slant to 'no'.

Now I have doubts.

Kind of.

On the one hand, I've given up on the idea of paying a large sum of money for an MBA.  If I'm going to do one, I'll do it for free.

On the other hand, I'm not considering an MBA because it's what I've always wanted to do.  Maybe a DIYMSc is the way to go?  I quite like the idea of piecing together a robotics/AI curriculum.  Maybe even with some MBA thrown in.

