---
layout: post
title: "Build a PC"
date: 2015-09-29 23:11
cover: cover.jpg
comments: true
categories: [education]
---
Recently, I set out to build a new PC.  Having been a Mac user for quite a few years, it's a long time since I've made much use of a PC at home.  The most I've done previously was to put a graphics card or HDD into an old Gateway desktop, or put together a small Mini-ITX machine that I barely use.  Of course, this time I'll make good use of a new machine....

So the main requirements were:
* Build a PC from components
* Build it to a reasonably high spec
* Install Windows and Linux
* Be quiet
* Eventually run a 4K screen without too much trouble (some games)
* Be powerful enough to eventually eventually connect to a VR headset without too much trouble

As the machine was specced out, I realised I could cut costs a bit by skimping on: a monitor (I have an OK monitor already), keyboard and mouse.  Once I'd read up a bit on Skylake, and accepted the fact that I don't have /that/ much time to play games, I realised I could easily live with the integrated GPU on the Intel Skylake i7.

Ultimately, the components I bought were:
* CPU: Intel i7 6700K (4GHz, quad core)
* Motherboard: Asus Maximus VIII Hero ATX
* CPU Cooler: Cooler Master Hyper 212
* RAM: G.Skill Ripjaws 16GB (2x8GB) DDR4-2800
* SSD: Samsung SM951 512GB M.2
* HDD: Seagate Barracuda 3TB 7200RPM
* Case: Fractal Design Define R5 ATX Mid Tower (White)
* PSU: EVGA SuperNova 750W Fully-Modular ATX
* Drive: Pioneer BDC-207DBK Bluray drive

So far, it's working well.  It's very quiet, despite having been overclocked at a basic level via some simple BIOS changes.  It looks like a fridge, but I quite like that.  No window in the case - I'd rather it be quiet.

Getting Windows 10 and Arch Linux installed side-by-side was pretty painful.  Partly because it's just awkward, and partly because I didn't have enough understanding of UEFI issues with installing Arch.  It's there now though.  Also, I had to move the community, slightly more bleeding edge version of Arch due to Intel not incorporating all the required driver changes for Skylake into the relevant Linux/X/Mesa projects in time.

On the whole, it's been a great educational experience.  Whether you're building a high spec or extremely low spec machine, it's definitely worth going through the process to get a better understanding of the systems we use.  It's very easy to enjoy working with (for example) a well integrated Mac laptop (as I'm using now), but I think that makes people a little complacent.  Doing things yourself shows a different perspective.  You learn things you'd never otherwise learn.  You might never need all that knowledge again, but at least you've broadened your experience a little.  Some sharp edges every now and then keep you on your toes.

It's going to take a lot more use before I can reasonably justify the expense though....

